Basic types:

  string = '"' ('\\' . / !('\\' / '"') .)* '"';

  int = '-'? ('0'..'9'+);

  names = '/' name

  code = '{' (atom blank+)* '}'; they are in fact lists

  list of objects (constructed with ']')

  dictionary of objects (constructed with '>>')

Operators (sorted by section):

  operand stack manipulation:

  pop:	obj pop -
  exch:	obj1 obj2 exch obj2 obj1
  dup:	obj1 dup obj1 obj1
  copy:	obj1 obj2 .. objn n copy obj1 obj2 .. objn obj1 obj2 .. objn
  index:	anyn .. any1 any0 n index anyn .. any1 any0 anyn
  roll:	obj{n-1} .. obj{0} n j roll obj{(j-1)mod n} .. obj{0} obj{n-1} .. obj{j mod n}
  count:	|- obj1 .. objn count |- obj1 .. objn n

  arithmetic, math and relational:

  +:	int1 int2 + int
  -:	int1 int2 - int
  *:	int1 int2 * int
  mod:	int1 int2 mod int
  div:	int1 int2 div int
  neg:	int1 neg int
  and:	int1 int2 and int
  or:	int1 int2 or int
  xor:	int1 int2 xor int
  not:	int1 not int
  eq:	obj1 obj2 eq int
  ne:	obj1 obj2 ne int
  ge:	obj1 obj2 ge int
  gt:	obj1 obj2 gt int
  le:	obj1 obj2 le int
  lt:	obj1 obj2 lt int

  control:

  if:	cond proc if -
  ifelse:	cond procTrue procFalse ifelse -
  for:	initial increment limit proc for -
  repeat:	int1 proc repeat -
  loop:	proc loop -
  exit:	- exit -
  exec:	proc exec -
  try:	proc try errmsg

Operators (sorted by name):

  [:	- [ mark

    Pushes a mark object in the stack.

  ]:	mark1 obj1 obj2 ... objn | list

    Creates a new list of n elements, by popping the objects from the
    topmost mark on the stack.

  <<:	- << mark

    Same as '[', just pushes a mark object.

  >>:	mark1 key1 obj1 key2 obj2 ... keyn objn | dict

    Creates a new dictionary with n mappings, by popping the objects from the
    topmost mark on the stack.

  +:	string1 string2 + string
	code1 code2     + code
	list1 list2     + list
	int1 int2       + int

    Concatenates two strings or two lists, joins two thunks of code, or adds
    two integer numbers.

    Example, doing: [ "foo" 42 ] [{var}] +
    should be equal to: ["foo" 42 {var}]

  -:	int1 int2 - int

    Substract int2 from int1, and push back the result.

  *:	int1 int2 * int

    Multiply int1 by int2, and push back the result.

  and:	int1 int2 and int

    Do a bitwise and of int1 and int2, and push back the result.

  begin:	dict begin -

    Pushes dict on dictionary stack.

  copy:	obj1 obj2 .. objn n copy obj1 obj2 .. objn obj1 obj2 .. objn

    Duplicate top n elements.

  count:	|- obj1 .. objn count |- obj1 .. objn n

    Push the number of elements in the stack.

  currentdict:	- currentdict dict

    Push the current dictionary in the stack.

  (TODO) currentsystemparams:	- currentsystemparams dict

    Pushes a dictionary with all the key/values of the current settings
    on the application.

  (TODO) cvi:	string cvi int

    Convert to int. May throw errors.

  (TODO) cvs:	obj cvs string

    Converts any object to a string, showing a valid representation of itself.

  (TODO) cvx:  string cvx proc

    Converts to proc (parsing the input as a program). May throw errors.

  def:	key value def -

    Associate key and value in current dictionary.

  deleteline:	- deleteline -

    This deletes the current line on the current buffer. After that the cursor
    will be located on an unspecified line, so extra care should be taken. To
    use this command initwtm should be previously called.

  div:	int1 int2 div int

    (Integer) Divide int1 by int2, and push back the result.

  dup:	obj1 dup obj1 obj1

    Pops an object and pushes it twice, in other words it's duplicated.

  end:	- end -

    Pop current dictionary off dictionary stack.

  eq:	obj1 obj2 eq int

    Pops two objects and pushes 0 or 1. It pushes 1 if both popped objects have
    the same type and are equal on that type, it pushes 0 otherwise.

  exch:	obj1 obj2 exch obj2 obj1

    Exchange two top elemts.

  exec:	proc exec -

    Pops a procedure from the top of the stack, and executes it in the current
    context.

  exit:	- exit -

    Breaks the innermost loop. The following operators are considered loops:
    filter, for, forall, loop, repeat.

  % en lugar de filter se puede usar un forall.
  (TODO) filter:	dict proc   filter filteredDict
		list proc   filter filteredList
		string proc filter filteredString

    Executes proc repeteadly while iterating throught the collection, pushing
    them (in a similar fashion to forall), and if popping an integer. If that
    integer is non-zero, then the previously pushed item is added to a new
    collection.

    Example: "hello" {"l" ne} filter                  =>   "heo"
    Example: <<42 "foo" 3 "bar">> {pop 10 >} filter   =>   <<42 "foo">>
    Example: [2 43 17 99 32] {2 mod} filter           =>   [43 17 99]

  for:	initial increment limit proc for -

    Excecutes the procedure proc repeatedly by passing it a sequence of values
    from initial by steps of increment to limit. It's expected that initial,
    increment and limit be int, and proc be code.

    Example: 0 1 1 5 {add} for    =>   15

  forall:	dict proc   forall -
		string proc forall -
		list proc   forall -

    Executes proc repeteadly while iterating throught the collection.

    If the first argument is a dictionary then for each key/value, it pushes
    a key, its value, and runs an iteration.

    If the first argument is a list, then for each element, it's pushed and
    then and then proc is ran.

    If the first argument is a string, then that string is splitted into a
    list of one char substrings, and then forall is run like its argument
    were a list.

  get:	dict key     get value
	string index get str
	list index   get value

    If the first argument is a dict, returns the associated key on the
    dictionary, or throw an "undefined" error.

    If the first argument is a string, return the 1 char substring at the
    position identified by index. The index must be an int between 0 and
    length(str)-1, or a "rangecheck" error ocurrs.

    If it's a list, return the index-th element of the list. The index must
    be an integer between 0 and length(list)-1, or a "rangecheck" error occurs.

  getcommand:	prompt getcommand result 1  (if Enter is pressed)
				  "" 0      (if Esc or ^C pressed)

    This operator pops the prompt from the stack, asks the user a string
    showing that prompt, placing the cursor on the last line, and waiting
    until the user presses enter or the escape key.

    To use this command initwtm should be previously called.

  getinterval:	list index count   getinterval sublist
		string index count getinterval substring

    If the first argument is a list, returns a new sublist starting at index
    (0 based) of at most count elements. If the first argument is a string
    then a substring is returned.

  getkey:	- getkey listkey listmods

    Waits for a keypress and in the first list it returns a list with the
    key name or key kind, and in the second list it returns a list of the
    modifiers names.

    For instance the first list may be: {"KEsc"}, {"KFun" 5}, {"KASCII" "j"},
    etc... and the seconds list may have one or both of the strings: "MCtrl",
    "MMeta" in it, and in that order.

  getline:	num getline string

    Pops the line number of the current buffer from the stack, and pushes back
    a string with its text. To use this command initwtm should be previously
    called.

  getxpos:	- getxpos num

    Pushes back the cursor position in the current line of the current buffer.
    It's 0 based, so a 0 is returned if the cursor is located on the first char
    of the line. To use this command initwtm should be previously called.

  getxsize:	- getxsize num

    Return the number of characters in the current line of the current buffer.
    To use this command initwtm should be previously called.

  getypos:	- getxpos num

    Pushes back the line number of the current line of the current buffer.
    It's 0 based, so a 0 is returned if the cursor is located on top of the
    file. To use this command initwtm should be previously called.

  getysize:	- getysize num

    Return the number of lines in the current buffer. This is always at least 1.
    To use this command initwtm should be previously called.

  globaldict:	- globaldict dict

    Pushes back the global dictionary.

  head:	list   head obj1
	string head str1

    Pops the string or the list from the stack, and pushes back a substring
    with the first char of the original string, or the first element of the
    list.

  if:	cond proc if -

    The procedure and the condition are popped (cond must be an int and proc a
    thunk of code), and then proc is executed if cond is different than zero.

  ifelse:	cond procTrue procFalse ifelse -

    Pops cond, procTrue and procFalse. cond must be an int number. If cond is
    not equal to zero, then run procTrue, otherwise run procFalse.

  index:	anyn .. any1 any0 n index anyn .. any1 any0 anyn

    Pops the non-negative int 'n' from the stack, counts back n positions from
    the top of the stack, and pushes a copy of that element.

  initwtm:	- initwtm -

    Initializes vty, thus this should not run inside the terminal.

  known:	dict key  known res
		list elem known res

    Pops a dict or a list, a key or an element, and push back 1 if the key was
    present in the dictionary, or if the elem appears on the list.

  length:	string length int
		dict   length int
		list   length int

    Pops a string, dictionary or list, and then its length (number of chars if
    a string, number of mappings of a dict, or elements on a list) is pushed
    back.

  load:	key load value

    Searches for key in each dictionary of the dictionary stack, starting with
    the topmost (current) dictionary. If the key is found, its corresponding
    value is pushed back on the stack, otherwise an "undefined" error is
    thrown.

  loop:	proc loop -

    Run loop an indefinite number of times, (until an "exit" condition occurs)

  mod:	int1 int2 mod int

    Divide int1 by int2 and push back the __remainder__ of that integer
    division.

  ne:	obj1 obj2 ne int

    Pops two objects and pushes 0 or 1. It pushes 0 if both popped objects have
    the same type and are equal on that type, it pushes 1 otherwise.

  neg:	int1 neg int

    Pops an int element, and pushes back its negative (0 minus that element).

  not:	int1 not int

    Pops an int element, and pushes back 1 if the element was zero, or 0 if the
    element was different than zero.

  null:	dict   null res
	list   null res
	string null res

    Pops an element and pushes back 1 if the dictionary or list is empty, or
    if the string is equal to "".

  openfile:	filename openfile -

    This operand will try to open the file with that name, if it's successfully
    loaded the content of the current buffer is replaced with the file
    contents. However, if the file can't be read, the content of the current
    buffer is deleted. To use this command initwtm should be previously called.

    After calling this operator, the filename is associated with the current
    buffer.

  openline:	after openline -

    This creates a new line in the current buffer. If after is different than 0
    it's created after the current line, otherwise it's created before the
    current line. In any case the cursor is placed on the new open line. To use
    this command initwtm should be previously called.

  or:	int1 int2 or int

    Do a bitwise or of int1 and int2, and push back the result.

  pop:	obj pop -

    Discards top elemnt of the stack.

  put:	dict1 key value put dict

    Pop a dictionary, a key and a value, and then it pushes a new dictionary
    with the same contents of the old one but with key associated with value.

  quit:	- quit -

    Exits the current program.

  regexp:	re subject regexp index count
				  -1 (if not found

    Matches the regular expression re against subject, and returns -1 if the
    match failed, or two integers >= 0 such that:

      subject re subject regexp dup 0 ge {getinterval} {pop ""} ifelse

    this code leaves an empty string if the text didn't match, or the matched
    part of the string otherwise.

  regsub:	re subj replstr regsub str

    Matches re against subj, and if it's matched, the matched substring is
    replaced according to replstr. Besides normal characters, in replstr may
    appear backreferences \1 to \9, which should be escaped e.g: "\\1", also,
    the & character may appear working as a reference to the whole matched
    part of subj. If you want a literal & character, you should escape it.

    "l+" "olla" "<&>" regsub     =>     "o<ll>a"

  repeat:	int1 proc repeat -

    Pop int1 and proc, and run proc int1 times.

  roll:	obj{n-1} .. obj{0} n j roll obj{(j-1)mod n} .. obj{0} obj{n-1} .. obj{j mod n}

    Perform circular shift of the objects on top of the stack.

    Example: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7  5 2 roll          =>   1 2 6 7 3 4 5
    Example: "a" "b" "c" "d"  3 -1 roll pop   =>   "a" "c" "d"

  run:	filename run -

    Load a file (if it exists) and execute it.

  search:	haystack needle search post match pre 1  (if found)
				       haystack 0          (otherwise)

    Looks for the first occurrence of the string needle in the string haystack,
    and returns the result from the search. If the search is successfull, the
    haystack is split in three according to the searched needle. For instance:

    "another day" "th" search   =>   "er day" "th" "ano" 1
    "foo bar" "A" search        =>   "foo bar" 0

  setglobaldict:	dict setglobaldict -

    Pops a dictionary from the top of the stack, and stores that dictionary
    as the global one.

  setline:	num txt setline -

    This operator pops the line number and a string, and modifies the line
    with that number in the current buffer, overwriting its text with the
    popped one. To use this command initwtm should be previously called.

  setst:	status setst -

    This operator sets the given text on the status bar. After calling this
    operator, a call to showwtm may be needed. To use this command initwtm
    should be previously called.

  setxpos:	num setxpos -

    This operator places the cursor on the num char of the current line. This
    number must be greater or equal than 0, and should be less or equal than
    the number of characters of the current line. To use this command initwtm
    should be previously called.

  setypos:	num setypos -

    This operator places the cursor on the line with number num. This number
    must be greater or equal than 0, and must be less than the number of
    characters of the current line. To use this command initwtm should be
    previously called.

  showwtm:	- showwtm -

    This command refreshes the terminal. It's useful after calling setst.
    To use this command initwtm should be previously called.

  store:	key value store -

    Searches for key in each dictionary on the dictionary stack, starting with
    the topmost dictionary until key is found. If key is not found, then it
    stores the key/value on the current dictionary, otherwise, the value
    associated with the found key is replaced by this new value.

  (TODO) stringwidth:	string stringwidth width

    Pops a string from the top of the dictionary, and returns the width it
    would occupy when printing on the terminal. For printable chars, the width
    is at least 0. Otherwise -1 is returned.

    Example: "a" stringwidth    =>   1
    Example: "あ" stringwidth   =>   2

  tail:	string tail str
	list   tail lst

    Pops the string or the list from the stack, and pushes back a substring
    discarding only the first char of the original string, or returns a list
    with all the element of the list but the first.

  try:	proc try ""      (if successful)
		 errmsg  (if an error was thrown)

    Same as exec, but after execution a string is pushed back. An empty string
    if it finishes without throwing errors, or the error string in other cases.

  type:	obj type str

    Pops an object, and returns a string representation of its type.

    String      -> "string"
    Dictionary  -> "map"
    Integer     -> "int"
    Mark type   -> "mark"  (created with [ and <<)
    List        -> "list"
    Name	-> "name"
    Internal Op -> "internal"

  undef:	dict key undef dict

    Pops a key and a dict, and pushes back a copy of the dict without the key.
    No error occurs if the key is not present on the dict.

  where:	key where dict 1 (if found)
			  0      (otherwise)

    Pops a key, and searches from the top dictionary on the dictionary stack
    up to the global dict. If it's found, this pushes back the dictionary
    where it was found, and a 1. Otherwise it just pushes a 0.

  windown:	- windown -

    Scroll downwards one line in the current buffer. To use this command
    initwtm should be previously called.

  winup:	- winup -

    Scrolls upwards one line in the current buffer. To use this command initwtm
    should be previously called.

  writefile:	optionalfilename writefile -

    optionalfilename may be an empty list, or a list with one string, the
    filename. If the list is empty then the this operator tries to write the
    current buffer with its associated filename (see openfile).

    To use this command initwtm should be previously called.

  xor:	int1 int2 xor int

    Do a bitwise xor of int1 and int2, and push back the result.

Operands ignored from the postscript standard:

  =, ==, $error, abs, add, addglyph, aload, anchorsearch, arc, arcn, arct,
  arcto, array, ashow, astore, atan, awidthshow, beginbfchar, beginbfrange,
  begincidchar, begincidrange, begincmap, begincodespacerange, beginnotdefchar,
  beginnotdefrange, beginrearrangedfont, beginusematrix, bind, bitshift,
  bytesavailable, cachestatus, ceiling, charpath, ¿clear?, cleardictstack,
  ¿cleartomark?, clip, clippath, cliprestore, clipsave, ¿closefile?, closepath,
  colorimage, composefont, concat, concatmatrix, configurationerror, copypage,
  cos, ¿countdictstack?, ¿counttomark?, cshow,
  currentblackgeneration, currentcacheparams, currentcmykcolor, currentcolor,
  currentcolorrendering, currentcolorscreen, currentcolorspace,
  currentcolortransfer, currentdash, currentdevparams, currentfile,
  currentflat, currentfont, currentglobal, currentgray, currentgstate,
  currenthalftone, currentlinecap, currentlinejoin, currentlinewidth,
  currentmaxtrix, currentmiterlimit, currentobjectformat, currentoverprint,
  currentpacking, currentpagedevice, currentpoint, currentrgbcolor,
  currentscreen, currentshared, currentsmoothness, currentstrokeadjust,
  currenttransfer, ¿currenttrapparams?, currentundercolorremoval,
  ¿currentuserparams?, curveto, cvlit, cvn, cvr, defaultmatrix, definefont,
  defineresource, defineuserobject, ¿deletefile?, dict, dictfull, dictstack,
  dictstackoverflow, ¿dictstackunderflow?, dtransform, echo, eexec, endbfchar,
  endbfrange, endcidchar, endcidrange, endcmap, endcodespacerange,
  endnotdefchar, endnotdefrange, endrearrangedfont, endusematrix, eoclip,
  eofill, erasepage, ¿errordict?, execform,
  execuserobject, executeonly, executive, exitserver, exp, false, ¿file?,
  ¿filenameforall?, ¿fileposition?, fill, filter (another more useful proc is
  implemented instead), findcolorrendering, ¿findencoding?, findfont,
  findresource, flattenpath, floor, ¿flush?, ¿flushfile?, FontDirectory,
  gcheck, GetHalftoneName, GetPageDeviceName, GetSubstituteCRD,
  GlobalFontDirectory, glyphshow, grestore, grestoreall, gsave, gstate,
  identmatrix, idiv, idtransform, image, imagemask, ineofill, infill, initclip,
  initgraphics, initmatrix, instroke, internaldict, interrupt, inueofill,
  inufill, inustroke, ¿invalidaccess?, ¿invalidexit?, ¿invalidfillaccess?,
  invalidfont, invalidrestore, invertmatrix, ¿ioerror?, ISOLatin1Encoding,
  itransform, kshow, languagelevel (or maybe returning -1 xD), limitcheck,
  lineto, ln, log, makefont, makepattern, ¿mark? (useless), matrix, maxlength,
  moveto, mul (* is implemented instead), newpath, noaccess, nocurrentpoint,
  null (another version is implemented instead), nulldevice, packedarray,
  pathbbox, pathforall, ¿print?, ¿printobject?, product, prompt, ¿pstack?,
  ¿putinterval?, ¿rand?, ¿rangecheck?, rcheck, rcurveto, ¿read?,
  readhexstring, ¿readline?, readonly, ¿readstring?, realtime, rectclip,
  rectfill, rectstroke, removeall, removeglyphs, ¿renamefile?, ¿resetfile?,
  resourceforall, resourcestatus, restore, reversepath, revision, rlineto,
  rmoveto, rootfont, rotate, round, rrand, save, scale, scalefont,
  scheck, selectfont, serialnumber, serverdict, setbbox, setblackgeneration,
  setcachedevice, setcachedevice2, setcachelimit, setcacheparams, setcharwidth,
  setcmykcolor, setcolor, setcolorrendering, setcolorscreen, setcolorspace,
  setcolortransfer, setdash, setdevparams, ¿setfileposition?, setflat, setfont,
  setglobal, setgray, setgstate, sethalftone, sethsbcolor, setlinecap,
  setlinejoin, setlinewidth, setmatrix, setmiterlimit, setobjectformat,
  setoverprint, setpacking, setpagedevice, setpattern, setrgbcolor, setscreen,
  setshared, setsmoothness, setstrokeadjust, ¿setsystemparams?, settransfer,
  settrapparams, settrapzone, setucacheparams, setundercolorremoval,
  setuserparams, setvmthreshold, shareddict, SharedFontDirectory, shfill,
  show, showpage, sin, sqrt, srand, ¿stack?, stackoverflow, ¿stackunderflow?,
  StandardEncoding, start, StartData, startjob, status, statusdict, stop,
  stopped, stringwidth (similar idea, different characteristics), stroke,
  strokepath, sub (- is used instead), ¿syntaxerror?, systemdict, timeout,
  ¿token?, transform, translate, true, truncate, ¿typecheck?, uappend, ucache,
  ucachestatus, ueofill, ufill, ¿undefined?, ¿undefinedfilename?,
  undefinedresource, undefinedresult, undefinefont, undefineresource,
  undefineuserobject, ¿unmatchedmark?, ¿unregistered?, upath, usecmap,
  usefont, userdict, UserObjects, usertime, ustroke, ustrokepath, version,
  VMerror, vmreclaim, vmstatus, wcheck, widthshow, ¿write?, writehexstring,
  writeobject, ¿writestring?, xcheck, xshow, xyshow, yshow.

  Those operands between question marks may be considered for addition.
